The assessment process is broken. It outputs regressive tax rolls world wide. Furthering inequality. Burdening those who need a relief. And boosting those who don't need. 

Even the best Assessors Office are regressive. This happens for 2 main reasons: bad data (cheap properties are obscure), and biased exemptions (rich people appeal and win).

AssessingAgents offers a state of the art Assessing workflow. To independently appraise and exempt properties. Producing a fairness seeking tax roll, meant to meaningfully inform the real assessment. The only thing you must do, is feed as much data as possible, everything regarding your assessment and exemption process.

AssessingAgents starts by deeply understanding your Assessor's Office. Your workflows, your boundaries, your exemption rules, your social conditions, your properties and their sales. Then, AssessingAgents appraises and exempts properties. Checks KPIs (COD, PRD, and sales ratios). And publishes a tax roll. 

In other words, AssessingAgents is an agentic Assessor's office team, realistically simulating appraisal and exemption. You decide when and where. 

AssessingAgents is a team of 5. 
-Chief: Orchestrator who oversees the team. Talks to the client. Verifies and publishes the tax roll.
-Collector: finds, organizes, and documents all relevant data sources.
-Appraiser: values every property using established appraisal methods.
-Exemptor: applies exemption rules and keeps decisions traceable.
-Educator: produces studies and plain-language reports for the public.

--Why AssessingAgents 

Assessment is a delicate hard job. Assessors need the power of simulations to perform better and run what if scenarios. 

--AssessingAgents's culture.

Quick iteration. Ship a lot. Hack.

--AssessingAgents's plan

Demonstrated the power of AssessingAgents for a Tralaland. Now we go for Boston. 

--A word on real Assessor's Office.

Assessor's Office collect tons of data: 
	Boundaries. 
	Building classifications.
	Building characteristics. 
	Sales.
	Demographics (and social conditions).
	Environmental conditions (and quality of living). 

Assessor's Office then build pipelines to store and transform their data. Including:
	Statistical models. 
	Databases and stores. 
	
Assessor's Office then open exemptions with:
	Communication channels. 
	Stages.
	Rules. 

And finally Assessor's Office educate the public:
	Publish standardized studies.
	Organize events. 
	
The final output is the tax roll.  

--Future development
AssessingAgents will iterate until all KPI thresholds are met. 
Perhaps AssessingAgents transforms your data into its own model, combining 3 languages for a complete data representation: maps (Geography Markup Language), properties (Building Information Modeling), and social characteristics.
